One aspect mentioned in this article that I want to know more about is Neanderthals having “surfers’ ear”. The article only briefly mentions it, stating that it is in line with the discovery of this cave. My intent in my research is to first identify what surfers’ ear is and second to understand the correlation between Neanderthal seafood collection and surfers’ ear. 
The scientific literature that I chose is a peer-reviewed research article about Externa auditor exostoses, or “Surfers’ ear”. For the rest of this assignment I will be referring to surfers’ ear as EAE.
Through my research I was not able to conclusively deduce that EAE in Neanderthals and their seafood collecting have a correlation. But, because of the high rates of EAE development in Neanderthals, it is not unreasonable to hypothesize that Neanderthals developed EAE because they were diving into cold water for resources.
The news article is about a cave on the coast of Portugal that was recently discovered. The cave contained dense collections of aquatic resources (including horse and deer remains) collected by Neanderthals. The primary significance of this cave is the high consistency of the aquatic materials found, pointing to Neanderthals systematic use of them. The article goes on to suggest that Neanderthals understood when shellfish were toxic and even says it was likely that they carried them in baskets (Davis, 2020). EAE is only briefly mentioned in the article, to suggest that the discovery of the cave is in line with EAE supporting the same conclusion.
“External auditory exostoses (EAE; torus acusticus) are dense bony growths protruding into the external auditory canal.” (Trinkaus et al., 2019) EAE is commonly observed in modern humans who engage in aquatic sports. The article frequently references 15 Neanderthal remains, of which eight had EAE. The article also goes in depth about the severity of each case and concludes that the presence of EAE in Neanderthals is likely the result of their use of “aquatic resources”, but it is not conclusive as it can also be caused by cold and damp wind (Trinkaus et al., 2019).
In conclusion EAE in Neanderthals is not only an interesting biological commonality between modern humans and Neanderthals, it also is likely an indicator that Neanderthals swam frequently. But it is hard to ignore that the condition could be completely unrelated and caused by cold/damp wind. My own hypothesis after considering both the news article and the research article, is that Neanderthals did develop EAE because of their aquatic resource gathering.